Release history for xearth, version 1.1
Kirk Lauritz Johnson <tuna@indra.com>
6 November 1999


xearth version 1.1 (6 November 1999)

  Finalize some changes that I've been sitting on for a few years;
  integrate some contributed code. New features:

  - new position specifier (moon)
  - new rotation specifier (galactic)
  - cylindrical projections (-proj cyl)
  - support for "real" 24-bit displays
  - support for running xearth it its own top-level window (-noroot,
    -geometry)

  Plus miscellaneous code cleanup.

  "moon" and "galactic" changes are courtesy of Frank T. Solensky
  <solensky@TopLayer.com>.


xearth version 1.0 (29 September 1995)

  Many new features:

  - new position specifier (random)
  - Mercator projections (-proj)
  - rotated views (-rot)
  - shading discontinuity at terminator (-term)
  - rendering X image only once (-once)
  - user-specifiable marker information (-markerfile)
  - user-specifiable marker alignment (align=xxx)
  - user-specifiable label position (-labelpos)
  - mix of single- and double-pixel stars (-bigstars)
  - support for new display depths (12, 15, 16, and 24 bits)
  - inclusion of Robert Berger's gamma test image

  Plenty of general code tuning and cleaning.

  New copyright notice to reflect Unisys Corporation's patent on the
  LZW compression technique employed in the GIF file format.


xearth version 0.92 (1 June 1994)

  Fixed the broken code that was attempting to handle the situation
  when the requested font couldn't be loaded.

  Added black border/outline to label text (as was already being done
  for marker text).

  Several small changes to keep lint happier.


xearth version 0.91 (25 May 1994)

  Added code #ifdef-ed by NO_RANDOM and NO_SETPRIORITY to provide a
  standard workaround for systems without random() and/or
  setpriority().

  First cut at support for monochrome mode and 1-bit framebuffers.
  Monochrome mode is the default on 1-bit framebuffers; it can also be
  enabled with the "-mono" command line flag or the ".mono" X
  resource.

  Provided built-in bzero() workalike to avoid problems with pre-X11R5
  systems not having <X11/Xfuncs.h> and dealing with the ugly
  machinations required to automatically determine the right thing to
  do.

  Fixed bug in man page; the description of the interpretation of
  positive and negative values of longitude was incorrect.

  Fixed and uncommented the code that tries to kill the resources of
  any previous clients that had scribbled on the root window and left
  an _XSETROOT_ID property. (Note that xearth still doesn't set an
  _XSETROOT_ID property itself; see the big comment about _XSETROOT_ID
  in x11.c for details.)

  Minor performance tweaks and a few bug fixes in the dithering code.

  Added complete text of copyright to all source and documentation
  files (necessary for inclusion in the X11R6 contrib package).


xearth version 0.9 (14 May 1994)

  Wholesale changes. Many new features, including:

  - child process no longer forked by default
  - support for fixed, sun-relative, and orbital viewing positions
  - lines of longitude and latitude
  - (random) star-filled backgrounds
  - support for both command line options and X resources
  - brightly-colored location markers

  plus numerous other small changes and bug fixes.


xearth version 0.5 (23 July 1993)

  Initial release

----------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (C) 1989, 1990, 1993-1995, 1999 Kirk Lauritz Johnson

Parts of the source code (as marked) are:
  Copyright (C) 1989, 1990, 1991 by Jim Frost
  Copyright (C) 1992 by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@lucid.com>

Permission to use, copy, modify and freely distribute xearth for
non-commercial and not-for-profit purposes is hereby granted without
fee, provided that both the above copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in all copies and in supporting documentation.

Unisys Corporation holds worldwide patent rights on the Lempel Zev
Welch (LZW) compression technique employed in the CompuServe GIF image
file format as well as in other formats. Unisys has made it clear,
however, that it does not require licensing or fees to be paid for
freely distributed, non-commercial applications (such as xearth) that
employ LZW/GIF technology. Those wishing further information about
licensing the LZW patent should contact Unisys directly at
(lzw_info@unisys.com) or by writing to

  Unisys Corporation
  Welch Licensing Department
  M/S-C1SW19
  P.O. Box 500
  Blue Bell, PA 19424

The author makes no representations about the suitability of this
software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.

THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
